the leaders of the US Egypt and Qatar
have demanded the resumption of talks to
stop the fighting in Gaza they issued a
joint statement saying only the details
of carrying out any ceasefire and
hostage release need to be worked out
Israel has said it would send
negotiators to Doha or KIRO on August
15th Hamas has yet to respond the recent
assassination of Hamas political leader
in tan widely blamed on Israel's raised
tensions across the region some saying
it's complicated peace efforts
and let's bring in Rebecca riders in
Jerusalem we both know how complicated
this has been from the start uh Rebecca
but what is the likelihood in in your uh
in your opinion of these talks actually
taking part first of all taking uh
Place well I think they will uh they
with all likelihood will take place Ben
I mean you just said yourself though
this region is very complicated you
yourself have reported from here and
everyone knows that the talks are
supposed to take place on Thursday a
week in this region is a lifetime and
Anything Could Happen of course we're
waiting uh for retaliatory responses
from both Hezbollah and Iran should that
happen then you know it's very likely
that the talks will either be put on
hold or certainly certainly delayed but
but otherwise given given the uh The
Joint statement released yesterday and
then of course the prime minister's
office here issuing a statement saying
that Israel will take part in the talks
does mean that they are likely to go
ahead on Thursday at a yet to be
determined location this of course is uh
the latest iteration of a deal it's
based on the framework uh set out by US
President Joe Biden at the end of May
and you know both sides Hamas and Israel
have been close to agreeing on this deal
but there are still sticking points both
sides blaming each other for those
sticking points we'll just have to see
what comes out of these latest round of
negotiations next week okay so run us
through those sticking points
again yeah most of the same issues keep
coming up we have been talking about
this now for months and at various times
throughout all of these discussions
these various iterations of various
deals uh we have been talking about the
same sticking points namely the the the
discussion or the talking point around
the complete cessation of hostilities
that's something that Hamas has been
demanding and it's something that Israel
is saying is absolutely off the table it
wants to have the ability to resume
fighting uh after a period perhaps after
the first phase of the hostage negot
iations is complete and some of the
hostages have been released um
particularly a sticking point being
reported uh in this is something around
article 14 which of course I don't
expect people to be familiar with but
the language is uh around the duration
of negotiations that Hamas and Israel
are supposed to start during that first
phase of negotiations now uh the
original language as it stands now is
that the US Qatar and Egypt those key
negotiating Partners will make every
effort to ensure that these negotiations
end in an agreement for a permanent
ceasefire now Hamas want that language
to be changed from uh make every effort
to ensure to try and firm up that
agreement we've been hearing from the
Israeli side that that's something
they're unlikely to agree to so of
course while we talk about ironing out
the finer details these finer details
are indeed very important and still mean
that both sides are pretty far apart and
Rebecca what kind of pressure is the
hostage situation putting on Netanyahu
to come to any agreement
well just after the joint statement was
issued Ben we heard from the hostage
families Forum as a representative body
for the families of the hostages they
said the government and the Prime
Minister must demonstrate leadership uh
and conclude a deal without further
delay they have been putting uh ramping
up the pressure I could say on on the
government and on prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu we've been seeing
weekly protests even more than weekly uh
at times we've been seeing you know them
calling in the media that they want this
to be the most important thing that the
government is pursuing of course is the
release of the hostages well uh of
course Nyah who is also pursuing his
military aims which he says is equally
important and that's completely
dismantling Hamas uh you know for the
families of the hostages it must just be
an agonizing I think frustrating uh is
isn't strong enough definitely an
agonizing weight as they see as they get
hope every time that you know the Us and
other people say that we're close to a
deal and then of course those hopes are
dashed when the deal fails uh they have
been putting on pressure though I should
say for you know the entire time and it
still hasn't been enough so whether or
not you know they can ramp up the
pressure and and affect you know a
different response from Israel this time
remains to be seen but you know we
haven't seen that in the last nine or so
months since the last hostage deal we
haven't seen another deal so you know
the pressure is you know not being
ignored by the government but certainly
not getting it over the line when it
comes to agreeing to this deal yeah
definitely 10 months of Agony for the
families of hostages in Israel and uh 10
months of Agony for the people of Gaza
too Rebecca thank you very much for
bringing us up to date running through
the
prospects gersan Basin is an Israeli
Peace activist he operated a negotiating
Channel with Hamas for the release of
the Israeli soldier gilach chalit whom
Hamas held hostage for over five years I
asked him what message mediators are
trying to send with his new BR of talks
well first of all I would caution is
speaking about a peace agreement we're
not talking about peace we're talking
about a ceasefire an end to the war the
release of Israeli hostages the release
of Palestinian prisoners it's a far call
from peace so let's focus on that that
needs to be done what has happened with
the recent announcement joint
Announcement by the United States Qatar
and Egypt seems to be some kind of
changing of the rules that they've been
playing by for the last 10 months it
seems that the mediators have come to
the conclusion that they shouldn't carry
out these negotiations unended that they
have said that they are calling for the
parties to show up on the 15th of August
they are prepared to put bridging
proposals on the table which is really
the first time we've heard this and it
seems to me that they are a strong
arming both Israel and Hamas into
getting to the talks and hopefully
reaching an agreement that will put an
end to this war and release the Israeli
115 Israeli hostages who are still in
Gaza in hindsight what do you think now
of the galit exchange in which hamas's
Yahya Sina was released he said to have
planned the October 7 attacks on
Israel right I I don't think it's really
relevant to the discussion but we have
to remember that gilad shalik was in
captivity for 5 years and four months
the Israeli held in uh enemy captivity
for longer than any other Israeli the
deal that was on the table had actually
been on the table 6 months after
abduction from an army base inside of
Israel it took 5 years until the
parties's reached an agreement on that
deal it was not a good deal but it was
the only deal to bring the Israeli
soldier home which is part of the
Israeli ethos or what has been the
Israeli ethos that we don't leave anyone
behind and we're willing to pay a high
price for our people to return civilians
and military people the problem is not
the deal itself the problem is that
since he was released in 2011 nothing
was done to put an end to the Israeli
Palestinian conflict this is our tragedy
there is no military solution to this
conflict there never has been one there
is no military solution for dealing with
Hamas there never has been one what we
need is a political solution which
requires negotiations it requires us to
make Palestine real for the Palestinian
people for us to turn the two-state
solution into a reality it will require
Germany for example to recognize the
state of Palestine and to call on other
nations to recognize both Israel and
Palestine
the reason I ask you about that deal
which you say wasn't good is is is there
anything that makes you think this
current deal is going to be any
better no it won't be better but 115
Israelis are captivity are captive in
Gaza for 12 months for 10 months a
majority of them are believed to no
longer be alive this goes completely
against the Israeli ethos they were
abandoned by the country they were not
defended they were taken from their
homes and mil bases from their beds in
pajamas and held in captivity by the
state of Israel which failed to protect
its border and failed to protect its
citizens and the government of Israel
has a moral responsibility to bring them
home no one should be left in Gaza this
has to end there is a price for ending
that for bringing them home it also has
to end because tens of thousands of
people have been killed in Gaza most of
them non-combatants 2 million people
there are homeless their homes have been
destroyed too much damage has been done
this has to end we're talking about some
40,000 deaths according to the hamus L
Health authorities in Gaza um but we've
also seen so many hostage deaths as you
uh point out how much negotiating power
then does Hamas actually have right
now Hamas can negotiate forever until
they until all the hostage of the dead
then even Israel will negotiate for the
return of their bodies but we don't want
that to happen Hamas is not going to
surrender Israel would like to find the
Hamas leadership and kill them but
there's no guarantee that once they do
that if they do that the hostages will
remain alive if we want to get these
people home we're talking about still
some children women elderly people sick
and wounded people they have to be
brought home there is no way to bring
them home without a negotiated agreement
Israel has been trying to find them and
rescue them for 10 months and in those
10 months we've only rescued a handful
of them
well let's hope we can uh see a
ceasefire soon and maybe even peace at
some stage as you underlined earlier
Israeli Peace activist and negotiator
gersan Baskin thank you very much for
your
time thank you and as the families of
Israeli hostages wait for their loved
ones to be freed the people of Gaza are
also desperate for the fighting to stop
the Hamas run Health Ministry saying
almost 40,000 people have been killed as
I
mentioned 10 months into Israel's war
with Hamas thousands of gazans are again
forced to
flee many have moved multiple times to
escape the
fighting now they're leaving Han Yunis
as Israel steps up its attacks once
[Music]
again there's no safe area I'm telling
you we cannot find a place to stay we
are thrown in the streets and calling on
them calling on them to see us because
we are tired by God we are tired by God
we are
tired it's not just Israel's attacks
that shatter any sense of
security a lack of food clean water and
basic supplies means it's a daily
struggle to
survive we are tired of this life by God
death is better than this let the
country see our situation and find a
solution we are tired we've died 100
times Israeli attacks have hit two
schools in Gaza City in recent days
gaza's Civil Defense Agency said more
than 18 people were killed the Israeli
military said it struck Hamas command
centers